How many hours does one period of the cell cycle last in a typical adult animal cell?
24

When mitosis is used for reproduction, is the reproduction sexual or asexual?
asexual

When meiosis is used for reproduction, is the reproduction sexual or asexual?
sexual

What form of cell division is used for sexual reproduction?
meiosis

What does the word "meiosis" mean in Greek?
lessening

How many distinct "rounds" of cell division take place in meiosis?
2

In which round of meiosis, I or II, does chromosomal crossover occur?
I

In which round of meiosis, I or II, does separation of sister chromatids into haploid gametes occur?
II

Are the offspring of asexual reproduction genetically identical to the parent?
yes

Are the offspring of sexual reproduction genetically identical to the parent?
no

What are the only cells in the female body that have undergone meiosis?
ova

What are the only cells in the male body that have undergone meiosis?
sperm

Which form of cell division lets multicellular organisms grow larger?
mitosis

Which form of cell division lets multicellular organisms replace worn-out cells?
mitosis

What does the Greek word "mitos" mean, as used in the words "mitosis" and "mitochondrion"?
thread

What are the major stages of the cell cycle?
interphase, mitosis, and cytokinesis

In what stage of the cell cycle does the cell spend the most time?
interphase

About what percentage of the total cell cycle is spent in interphase?
90

What does the prefix "inter" literally mean?
between

What are the substages of interphase, in order?
G1, S, and G2

What does the letter "G" stand for in the G1 and G2 stages of interphase?
gap

What does the letter "S" stand for in the S stage of interphase?
synthesis

What is being synthesized during the "S" stage of interphase?
DNA

During what stage of the cell cycle is DNA replicated?
interphase

In what stage of the cell cycle does a single nucleus split into two?
mitosis

What are the stages of mitosis, in order?
prophase, metaphase, anaphase, and telophase

During what phase of mitosis do the nuclear membrane and nucleolus break down?
prophase

What does the prefix "pro-" mean as used in the word "prophase"?
before

During what phase of mitosis do chromosomes consense from long DNA strands?
prophase

What structure in animal cells most resembles an extruded pasta cartwheel?
centriole

What structure in animal cells is made up of two perpendicular centrioles?
centrosome

What does the word "centrosome" mean?
center body

How many centrosomes does a cell have during interphase?
1

What structural components link centrosomes and chromosomes during mitosis?
microtubules

What structure do linked centrioles, microtubules, and centromeres make?
mitotic spindle

In the mitotic spindle, what structure connects the microtuble to the centomere?
kinetochore

What does "kinetochore" mean in Greek?
moving string

During what phase of mitosis does the mitotic spindle form?
prophase

What structure links the two sister chromatids in a chromosome?
centromere

Are centromeres and centrosomes the same thing?
no

Of what substance are centromeres made?
DNA

Of what substance are centrosomes made?
microtubules

What are the two major parts of a condensed chromosome called?
sister chromatids

What does the word "chromosome" literally mean?
colored body

Of what substance are chromosomes made?
DNA

What does the abbreviation "DNA" stand for?
deoxyribonucleic acid

What does the prefix "meta-" mean as used in the word "metaphase"?
adjacent

In what phase of mitosis do the centromeres of chromosomes align at the cell's center?
metaphase

What is the imaginary plane equidistant from the centrosomes of the mitotic spindle called?
metaphase plate

At the beginning of what stage of mitosis do centromeres break?
anaphase

During what stage of mitosis do sister chromatids start to move toward opposite ends of the cell?
anaphase

What structures pull the sister chromatids apart during anaphase?
microtubules

During what stage of mitosis do two nucleoli and two nuclear membranes re-form?
telophase 

What does the Greek word "telos" mean?
end

What structure causes the indentation of the animal cell membrane during cytokinesis?
contractile ring

In cytokinesis, of what substances is the contractile ring made?
actin and myosin

Aside from the contractile ring in cytokinesis, what tissues in the body also contain actin and myosin fibers?
muscle

What is cancer?
uncontrolled cell growth

What causes cancer?
accumulated mutations

What kind of cell does not obey signals to stop reproducing?
cancer

What is the name of the woman who died in 1951, but whose cancer cells are still living today?
Henrietta Lacks

What is a physical substance that causes mutations called?
mutagen

In what stage of the cell cycle does a single cell split into two?
cytokinesis

What does the word "cytokinesis" mean in Greek?
cell movement

What does the word "somatic" mean?
body

How many individual chromosomes are in a normal somatic cell?
46

What does the word "homologous" mean, as applied to pairs of chromosomes?
matching

How many pairs of homologous chromosomes are in a diploid cell?
23

How many pairs of homologous chromosomes are in a haploid cell?
0

How many individual chromosomes are in a haploid cell?
23

How many copies of chromosome 21 are in the cells of a typical human?
2

How many copies of chromosome 21 are in the cells of a human with Down Syndrome?
3

How many cells are eventually made from a single progenitor in mitosis?
2

How many cells are eventually made from a single progenitor in meiosis?
4

What does a plant cell undergoing mitosis have that an animal cell would lack?
cell plate

In mitosis of plant cells, what structure is built along the cell plate?
cell wall 

What does an animal cell undergoing mitosis have that a plant cell would lack?
cleavage furrow

What is the advantage of sexual reproduction over asexual reproduction?
genetic variability
