What is the study of the relationships of organisms and their environment called?
ecology

What is a group of organisms and their environment called?
ecosystem

In an ecosystem, what are living things that affect other organisms called?
biotic factors

In an ecosystem, what are nonliving things that affect organisms called?
abiotic factors

What is the place an organism lives called?
habitat

What is the term for the way a particular organism fits into its ecosystem?
niche

What is the number of organisms of a particular type in a particular region called?
population

What is a group of ecological populations called?
community

What does the word "autotroph" mean?
self feeding

What does the word "heterotroph" mean?
feeding on others

What is another word for autotroph?
producer

What is another word for heterotroph?
consumer

What is an animal that eats only plants called?
herbivore

What is an animal that eats only other animals called?
carnivore

What is an animal that eats both animals and plants called?
omnivore

What is an animal that eats decomposed plants and animals called?
detritovore

What is a series of organisms, each of which consumes the one before it, called?
food chain

What is a cross-connecting and branching system of food chains called?
food web

What is the relatively thin shell around Earth that supports life called?
biosphere

What is the position that an organism occupies in a food chain called?
trophic level

What is the maximum population that a given habitat can support called?
carrying capacity

What is a variable that, when changed, changes the maximum size of a given population called?
limiting factor

What is a factor whose effects change with the population size in a given area called?
density-dependent

Is the climate a density-dependent or density-independent factor?
density-independent

What capital letter does the shape of an exponential growth curve most resemble?
J

What capital letter does the shape of a logistic growth curve most resemble?
S

What percentage of useful energy is typically lost between two adjacent trophic levels?
90

What is the term for the idea that energy can be neither created nor destroyed, only transformed?
conservation of energy

What is the term for the idea that matter can be neither created nor destroyed, only moved around?
conservation of mass

What does the word "symbiosis" mean?
living together

In what form of symbiosis does one species benefit while the other is mostly unaffected?
commensalism

In what form of symbiosis does one species benefit while the other is harmed?
parasitism

In what form of symbiosis do both species benefit?
mutualism

Is predation usually considered a form of symbiosis?
no

What is the term for a "major ecological community type"?
biome

What are "jungle", "grassland", "wetland", "deciduous forest", "tundra", "taiga", and "desert" examples of?
biomes

In what process do a series of species colonize a new or disturbed environment?
succession

What kind of succession occurs in a mostly lifeless environment?
primary

What kind of succession occurs after a disturbance in an established ecosystem?
secondary

What is the term for a species that first colonizes a lifeless environment?
pioneer

What mutualistic association of a fungus and an alga colonizes islands recently formed by lava flows?
lichen 

What are the major processes of the water cycle?
evaporation, condensation, precipitation, and runoff

What process primarily removes carbon from the atmosphere?
photosynthesis

What process primarily puts carbon back into the atmosphere?
cellular respiration

In the nitrogen cycle, what process primarily removes nitrogen from the atmosphere?
fixation

What kind of organisms do nitrogen fixation?
bacteria

Where do nitrogen-fixing bacteria live?
soil

On what parts of plants do some nitrogen-fixing bacteria live?
roots

How does phosphorus enter the ecosystem?
weathering of phosphate rocks

Where does phosphorus in the ecosystem eventually end up?
ocean floor

What does the word "tropism" mean in Greek?
turning

What form of tropism causes a plant to grow toward light?
phototropism

What form of tropism causes a plant's roots to grow down while its shoots grow up?
gravitropism

What form of tropism causes a vine to wrap around a support?
thigmotropism

What form of tropism causes roots to grow toward water?
hydrotropism
